now let's talk about IgE antibodies IgE
antibodies are important in the mucosal
system here again we have the mucosal
surfaces epithelial cells and here of
the blood vessel underneath it now this
is a lamina propria of any mucosal
system they can meet in the nasal the
gut or the bronchus for example I
mentioned before that the plasma cells
become activated once they leave the
blood vessel into the tissue and with
the help of T helper cells so here we
have an IgE a B lymphoblast leaving the
blood vessel and becomes a iga producing
plasma cell when the plasma cell
produces IgA it produces it produces it
in the in a dimeric form within the
mucosal system the dimeric form is when
the two IgA monomers are connected to
each other by a J chain however if the
IgA is - created a blood stream the iga
is usually monomeric just one of them
secreted like so another important thing
is that plasma cells are not usually
found in inductive sites such as in the
gut the inductive site being the peyer's
patches so plasma cells are not really
found in peyer's patches because plasma
cells are effective cells so they are
usually found in the lamina propria with
a suit where they can secrete antibodies
to protect against infection now that
the plasma cell has to create antibodies
these IgE antibodies what happens next
well the IgA the dimeric IgE antibody
can move from the lamina propria into
the lumen where it can help prevent
antigens from entering our body are
entering the mucosal surface for example
there are special receptors on a basal
aspect of these epithelial cells called
P IG R which which actually has affinity
for the dimeric IgA antibodies and once
the IgM antibody binds to the P IG R it
gets induced to ties within the cell and
then expelled out into the lumen and now
as it does this the dimeric IG antibody
the Jade chain takes part of the pigo
receptor and forms I the IgA plus the
secretory component so now we have many
IgE antibodies within lumen so what do
they do now what how do they prevent
antibodies from invading or causing an
infection within the mucosal surfaces
well for example you can do three things
if we have antigen pathogens within the
lumen the secreted IgA form can bind on
on these pathogens and antigens and
neutralize them so prevent them from
invading or infiltrating a cell
another thing antibodies can do if the
dimeric antibodies if it's declared
within the lamina propria and antigens
are present already in the lamina
propria the dimeric IgE antibody can
bind to these antigens present here and
then following this binding on the P IG
are our receptor on the basal aspect of
the cell and then with the antigen be
transported out into the lumen taking up
part of the pigo receptor so now we have
the IgA plus the antigen and the
security component so what happened here
so IgA can export passages and antigens
out of the lamina propria into the lumen
and the final thing or one of the one of
the other main things i j and j g8
antibodies can do is that if an antigen
has infiltrated a cell the iga antibody
can bind the P ie gr receptor of the
cell that is that has been infiltrated
and essentially bind with the antigen
within the cell and then transport it
out so number three the iga combined and
neutralize an antigen in within the cell
so that concludes the these videos on
the mucosal immune system the vehicle
immune system once again is very
important in preventing
pathogens from invading our body for
preventing infections another important
thing is that if an immune response is
generated within one area of the mucosal
system it can generate the immune
response in other areas such as if an
immune response is generated within the
nasal cavity the nasal mucosa tract it
can generate the same immune response in
the vaginal tract of the gut
so therefore it can create both any
coastal immune response and also a
systemic immune response which is very
important for example the development of
vaccines